{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green31\blue34;\red218\green221\blue226;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red10\green77\blue204;\red251\green0\blue7;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green31\blue35;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14118\c16078\c18039;\cssrgb\c88235\c89412\c90980;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c1176\c40000\c83922;\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99985;\cssrgb\c14147\c16111\c18054;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa480\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 Title of the project: "ReadMe.Md" authored by \'93Abhineet Shivkumar\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf5 \cb1 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \cb7 \strokec8 Course Project Overview\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 Johns Hopkins Data Science Specialization Getting and Cleaning Data Coursera Week 4 Class Project\
R code for Cleaning and Working with Data\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf5 \cb1 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \cb7 \strokec8 Source Data\cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf2 The data used in this course project represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone.\
More information can be found at the data source website:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones}}\
The data for this project can be downloaded here:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf5 \cb1 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 The R run_analysis.R code in this repository primarily performs these 5 functions:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\b0\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\b\fs30 \cf5 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \cb7 \strokec8 Code explanation\cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf2 The code combined training dataset and test dataset, and extracted partial variables to create another dataset with the averages of each variable for each activity.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\b\fs30 \cf5 \cb1 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \cb7 \strokec8 New dataset\cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf2 The new generated dataset contained variables calculated based on the mean and standard deviation. Each row of the dataset is an average of each activity type for all subjects.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\b\fs48 \cf5 \cb1 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \cb7 \strokec8 Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset\cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf2 Version 1.0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto. Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory DITEN - Universit\'e0 degli Studi di Genova. Via Opera Pia 11A, I-16145, Genoa, Italy.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:activityrecognition@smartlab.ws"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 activityrecognition@smartlab.ws}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\b\fs48 \cf5 \cb1 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa320\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.smartlab.ws/"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb4 www.smartlab.ws}}\cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa480\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data.\
The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. See 'features_info.txt' for more details.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\b\fs48 \cf5 \cb1 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \cb7 \strokec8 For each record it is provided:\cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa480\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Its activity label.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\b\fs48 \cf5 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \cb7 \strokec8 The dataset includes the following files:\cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa480\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 'README.txt'\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 'features_info.txt': Shows information about the variables used on the feature vector.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 'features.txt': List of all features.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 'activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 'test/X_test.txt': Test set.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 The following files are available for the train and test data. Their descriptions are equivalent.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 'train/subject_train.txt': Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 'train/Inertial Signals/total_acc_x_train.txt': The acceleration signal from the smartphone accelerometer X axis in standard gravity units 'g'. Every row shows a 128 element vector. The same description applies for the 'total_acc_x_train.txt' and 'total_acc_z_train.txt' files for the Y and Z axis.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 'train/Inertial Signals/body_acc_x_train.txt': The body acceleration signal obtained by subtracting the gravity from the total acceleration.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 'train/Inertial Signals/body_gyro_x_train.txt': The angular velocity vector measured by the gyroscope for each window sample. The units are radians/second.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\b\fs48 \cf5 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \cb7 \strokec8 Notes:\cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa480\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Features are normalized and bounded within [-1,1].\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Each feature vector is a row on the text file.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 For more information about this dataset contact:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:activityrecognition@smartlab.ws"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 activityrecognition@smartlab.ws}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\b\fs48 \cf5 \cb1 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \cb7 \strokec8 License:\cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa480\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 Use of this dataset in publications must be acknowledged by referencing the following publication [1]\
[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012\
This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility implied or explicit can be addressed to the authors or their institutions for its use or misuse. Any commercial use is prohibited.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita. November 2012.\
}